GETTING STARTED
Howard University’s School of Business Center for Career Excellence (CCE) is pleased that you are interested
in recruiting our students. CCE offers many services and programs to help both students and employers find
their perfect match. This employer recruitment guide details ways to partner with CCE, answers general
questions regarding recruiting at the School of Business, and outlines on-campus recruitment policies and
procedures. On-campus recruitment is a core component of the operations of the CCE, helping to connect the
best and brightest students at Howard University School of Business through on-campus interviews, career
fairs, networking events, professional development, and other recruiting activities.
All recruiting companies must agree to work within a framework of professionally accepted recruiting,
interviewing and selection practices as stipulated in the Equal Employment Opportunity Policy of Howard
University, the NACE Principles for Professional Practice, and the United States Department of Labor FLSA
Guidelines as well as abide by the recruiting and offer policies outlined throughout this guide.
Become an Official HUSB Recruiting Company
The first step to becoming an official HUSB recruiting company is to attend one of our informational meetings
where you will learn more about our school and details on the possibilities for engaging with us, including
recruiting. You will be added to an established engagement database used to communicate recruitment and
engagement updates to companies. To register as an official recruiting company and receive updates, please
submit the form on our website: https://business.howard.edu/about/engaging-husb.
Employer Registration on Handshake
The Center for Career Excellence utilizes, Handshake which is a free web-based system for recruiting at Howard 
University. It allows employers to identify candidates and it allows students to locate employer postings and
events. Registration with the University via Handshake will be constituted as your agreement to abide by our
policies and procedures. Failure to comply with the CCE policies as outlined below may forfeit your
organization’s right to recruit at Howard University.

Job Posting Policy
All companies are required to post their open positions on the University's career management system,
Handshake. Please note that we do not accept postings from the following:
• Employers posting full-time positions that do not require at least a bachelor’s degree
• Employers posting internships that do not require the pursuit of a bachelor’s degree
• Employers posting jobs that are based out of someone's home (babysitting, dog sitting, etc.)
• Employers posting full-time positions listed with a rate of pay lower than minimum wage,
commission-only employment is prohibited
• Employers posting internships that do not provide a learning environment supported by supervision
for their interns
• Employers posting opportunities with a personal email address (e.g., Gmail, Yahoo, etc.); employers
must always use their business email address

GUIDELINES FOR RECRUITMENT ACTIVITIES
Recruitment activities should take place during the same semester as your interviews to fully leverage student
interest in your organization. Please be advised that changes to any campus recruitment strategy less than
three weeks before a scheduledevent, or while students are on recess, may negatively impact attendance or
applications for positions. If you make changes to your interview schedule after students have begun to select
interview slots, it is your responsibility to contact students directly to reschedule their interviews. You should
also contact CCE to make sure changes are reflected on Handshake. We recommend allotting three weeks
between your initial position posting on Handshake and selected interview date. The CCE office does not
accept requests made for information sessions less than two weeks prior to the requested date. Invitation
only events are excluded from this policy

OFFER POLICIES
We encourage all employers to provide a reasonable time frame for students to consider all full-time and
internship opportunities and offers. We have outlined our offer deadline policies below. Please note that
the Office of Career Services explicitly prohibits any practices that improperly influence or pressure
students to accept offers earlier than the time frames posted below.
All employers participating in the Campus Recruiting Program, including postings, on-campus interviews,
employer information sessions, meet-ups and other student engagement events and programs coordinated
in conjunction with the CCE, will be expected to follow the Offer Policy. Employers who violate the “Offer
Policy” will be subject to penalties that may include forfeiture of the use of Career Services programs,
including on-campus interviewing, participation in employer information sessions and other visibility
programs and events, for the following academic year

Exploding Offers
CCE Strictly prohibits “exploding offers.” We recognize that many employers want to make offers to summer
interns. However, forcing a student to make a hasty decision pertaining to employment precludes his or her
exploration of other options and may cause them to renege on job offers. It is against our polices for any
student to renege on a job offer. Employers are asked to refrain from placing conditions on any offers and
incentives may not be offered to induce students to accept offers early.

Withdrawing an Offer
CCE strongly discourages any employer from withdrawing an internship or full-time employment offer.
Withdrawing an offer could seriously damage an employer’s reputation and effectiveness at Howard
University’s School of Business. We expect employers to honor all offers made to students. If you must
withdraw an offer due to unforeseen circumstances, please contact the CCE office immediately so that we can
assist you in this difficult situation.
Student Accountability
All employers should contact us directly if there are any issues concerning offer acceptances, students and
recruiting concerns, or interview cancellations or no-shows. If a student reneges on a written acceptance of
employment, please contact the CCE office as soon as possible to effectively handle the situation.

Career Development Opportunities
Dean’s partners have access to the career development opportunities below. Opportunities can be hosted
Monday-Thursday. Events should be posted in Handshake so that students can register. To request a career
development opportunity, complete the Event Request Form at least 14 days prior to your event and submit it
to HUSB-Career@howard.edu.
• Mock Interviews: The CCE hosts mock interviews to provide students with the necessary skills to have
successful interviews.
• Workshops: Career development workshops can be hosted by partners to enhance the skills and
knowledge of our students. Some examples are evaluating job offers, negotiating, networking, personal
brand & social media presence, leveraging LinkedIn, creating your elevator pitch, etc.
• Resume Critiques: The CCE hosts resume critiques throughout the semester. Partners can submit the
form to join us for resume critiques.
Events Considered for Center for Career Excellence (CCE) Credits
Some courses within the School of Business require student attendance at corporate sponsored events as part
of the course curriculum. Students attend the corporate sponsored information sessions, student engagement
activities and workshops for CCE course credits. Corporate events considered for CCE credits increase
company exposure and student engagement opportunities for our partners. Companies must submit
completed form and email to HUSB-Careers@howard.edu at least 14 days prior to event for consideration.
Jobs Advertised in the Weekly Career Bulletin
The CCE sends a weekly career bulletin to all students (undergrade and graduate) to include company
internships, full-time jobs, and events. Please email your position description and/or event details to HUSBCareer@howard.edu by Wednesdays at 12 noon to be included in the bulletin sent on Mondays.

Student Engagement Opportunities
All partners have access to the student engagement opportunities below. Student engagement events are
hosted Monday-Thursday. Events should be added to Handshake so that students can register. To request a
student engagement opportunity, complete the CCE Request Form at least 14 days prior to your event and
submit it to HUSB-Career@howard.edu.
• Lobby Day: Company booth setup on the first-floor lobby of the School of Business to allow partners
to speak with students in between classes about their company and opportunities. We recommended
that you provide a company tablecloth, signage, swag and/or snacks to attract students to your booth.
• Lunch and Learn: The partners are responsible for the presentation, the purchase of food, set-up, and
cleanup. The suggested format is lunch, a 30-minute company presentation, 15-minute Q&A, and
networking for the remainder of the session.
• Office Hours/Coffee Chats: Partners can host company office hours in a CCE suite interview room to
discuss company opportunities with students.
• Info Sessions/Open House: Partners can host info sessions to introduce students to their company
and the current career opportunities. Info sessions should be interactive, provide skill development
and/or an activity (examples: professional head shots provided to students, learning company
software or equipment, hands-on experience, etc.). We suggest providing an incentive (food, gift cards,
giveaways, etc.) to increase student attendance

