What should incoming Howard students know?
As the title said, literally any information for people considering Howard or have already committed. Community, faculty, food, internships, etc. Any information is helpful :)

Be prepared for the “Howard Runaround” that’s one thing that’s a guaranteed you’ll experience that majority of students have that’s unavoidable

Hello, so I’m a sophomore in finance at Howard, and I can tell you that everyone’s experience is different, so it’s hard to give you a concrete answer, but I’m going to try to answer the best way I can.

The community aspect of Howard is honestly the best part of being here. No matter what, 99% of the time you will be able to find your community, whether it’s from a club (we have over 500 clubs), from your classmates, or from your dorm. Usually, you will be able to find your own space of people to talk to. It really all depends on if you make an effort to make that community for yourself.

The food here really depends on how picky you are, but I can tell you what we have.

We have a dining hall called Blackburn that’s in the middle of the yard that has a lot of food options. They have a build-your-own sandwich, stir fry, nacho, and pasta station. It also has a vegan station, a salad bar, a waffle station, and a hot line that has food that changes every day. I do think that all of the build-your-own stations are a 7/10 besides the pasta (so nasty in my opinion); it really depends on your taste buds. We also have a place called Punchout that accepts dining dollars and sells pasta/pizza, a halal-style Chipotle, and American food that’s really good, but it runs on dining dollars so you can only go there until you run out. There is also Annex, which is all of the female dorms. They pretty much have the same thing as Blackburn but is way better. Since it is better, though, it usually has a longer line for everything. If you don’t want any of that, you can always buy something out, but the food in DC is generally really expensive.

Internships vary depending on major, but for business majors, it’s common for us to get a paid internship our freshman year. We have a spring and fall career fair that has a lot of good companies. Most of the time, they are looking for sophomores, but if you’re a good enough candidate, they could look past that.

If you have any other questions lmk :)

Be careful especially at night. Walk in pairs. Be alert. Don’t flash items of worth. Ask for an escort if you need. Howard overall is safe but remember it’s an open campus and we get crime alerts almost every day.

Also, never wait for email responses. Be proactive and ask ask ask and reconfirm the info.

